# machine-learning-f23-project
Repo for all project documents
# Introduction
In this project I have taken the stats from 2022 and used them to make predictions on how players will do in 2023. I found that the best way to do this was to use a DecisionTreeClassifier and allow the model to predict whether or not the players AVG in 2023 would be placed in 30 different categories. The categories start at below .150 and increase at .025 increments. Using multiple features from the 2022 seasons, AVG and SLG, I was able to get 99% of players placed in the correct category for 2023.
# Project Change
I have decided to change my project from guessing the emotion a song was trying to portray to how the rule changes has affect the MLB in 2023. Further explained in my initial_exploration file.
# initial_exploration
When I was looking at the data the first thing I wanted to do was get rid of the all the unneccesary data. I went through and deleted a lot of columns that didn't have to do with my exploration of the data. I then went through and took out anybody that had less than 100 at bats because I wanted my data to have only players that had enough at bats to show a good representation of their abilities. 
Another problem I ran into with the data was that when players were traded they would show up on the data sheet twice with both of their teams. I fixed this my removing the team column from the data set so that it wouldn't matter and grouped the whole data sheet by name. This will make it easy if I want to find specific players and using the .agg fucntion I was able to do the proper calculations to keep all the data in order.
I also wanted to create a category that gives each player a different ranking of 0-9 on how their AVG. I named this category AVG_group and it will be what my model is trying to predict.

# linear_regression
When I was looking for parameters the first thing I checked was the 2022/2023 AVG's and SLG's against eachother to see if their was a stronger correlation in either year. This showed my that 2023 had less of a correlation meaning that either people were getting on base more or less than in 2022 compared to their hitting percentage. My belief is that with the pitch clock added in and the substance ban on pitchers it made it easier for batters to take walks and when they did hit the ball they were getting more bases out of it.
I wanted to go more in depth so I checked out individually the AVGs vs the SLGs and vs the OBPs. This showed the same results furthering my speculation that in 2023 batters have an easier ability to get on base. When I went back to test it against my test set I got negative numbers for my score of the linear regression so I need to go through and find out why the differences are popping up.
There is not a large correlation between any of the statistics. They aren't necessarily supposed to be correlated because you are able to get on base in different ways. An OBP isn't going to be directly correlated to the players AVG.
# classification
I was able to get my players in 2022 split up into different categories based on the strength of their stats in 2022. I want to use this to get avgs from 2023 and be able to make a range of values for each category. I will start narrowing down categories where I need to and make sure that there isn't large clumps of players that have varying 2023 stats and try to keep the players that are already grouped up to stay together if their 2023 avg is similar. Then I will be able to use the stats of the groups up individuals and get a good idea of how they were going to do in 2023 based on their 2022 stats.
